# IfcDirectrixCurveSweptAreaSolid

An abstract entity defining common information about a type of swept area solid which is the result of sweeping an area along a Directrix. The swept area is provided by a subtype of IfcProfileDef. The profile is placed by an implicit cartesian transformation operator at the start point of the sweep, where the profile normal agrees to the tangent of the directrix at this point. The direction of profile's x-axis is specialized by the subtypes of IfcDirectrixCurveSweptAreaSolid.
<!-- end of short definition -->

The start of the sweeping operation is at the StartParam, the parameter value is provided based on the curve parameterization. If no StartParam is provided the start defaults to the begin of the directrix. The end of the sweeping operation is at the EndParam, the parameter value is provided based on the curve parameterization. If no EndParam is provided the end defaults to the end of the directrix.

## Attributes

### Directrix
The curve used to define the sweeping operation. The solid is generated by sweeping the SELF\IfcSweptAreaSolid.SweptArea along the Directrix.

### StartParam
The parameter value on the Directrix at which the sweeping operation commences. If no value is provided the start of the sweeping operation is at the start of the Directrix.

### EndParam
The parameter value on the Directrix at which the sweeping operation ends. If no value is provided the end of the sweeping operation is at the end of the Directrix.

## Formal Propositions

### DirectrixBounded
If the values for _StartParam_ or _EndParam_ are omitted, then the _Directrix_ has to be a bounded or closed curve.
